 Section 1 of the Truth About the Congo. This is a Librebox recording. All Librebox recordings are in the public domain. For more information or to volunteer, please visit librebox.org. Read by Mario Pineda. The Truths About the Congo by Frederik Star. Preface 1 Part 1 Preface. When I returned to America, I had decided to express an opinion upon the public and political questions of the Congo Free State. Having found conditions there are quite different from what I had expected. It was impossible for me to state my actual impressions without danger of antagonizing or offending some whom I valued as friends. Hence, on landing at New York, I refused to say anything upon this matters to several reporters who interviewed me. A little later, Nichika Gutribion asked me to write upon this subjects, urging the importance of the whole matter to our nation and leaving me entire freedom in viewpoint and mode of treatment. In response to its request, I prepared a series of articles which appeared in successive issues from January 20 to February 3, 1907. The articles were received with general interest and many asked that they should be reprinted in book form. I felt that they were of momentary interest only and as I have much other Congo matter for books and pamphlets more directly in the line of a professional work, I was inclined not to reprint them. But I soon found myself this subject of bitter attack. Malicious and untrue statements were made regarding me and my motives. I have concluded therefore that it is best that my articles should be accessible to all who are interested. What a road I am ready to defend. I am not ready to be judged from his quotations or condemned for what I never wrote. Hence this book. I am not personally responsible for the title, the truth about the Congo. Although I believe all my statements are true, I should not have selected the title for my articles. No man can say all that is true on any subject and I do not aggregate to myself and monopoly in truth telling either about the Congo or any other topic. But after my announcement under that hearing, I decided to let it stand. I preferred some lesser sort of title where I am content. So I used the same title for this book. They had lines or the articles however I have suppressed. They were not of my preparation and did not adequately suggest the matter or the treatment. The articles are reprinted with no changes except corrections in spelling, punctuation or mistaken words. No man more desires a happiness and progress of the Congo natives than do I. I know them pretty well. I am their friend, they are my friends. I shall be glad if what I hit a percent makes them under cause better known to tough full and sympathetic men and women. mere emotion however violent will not help them. The starver reviews out to recognize and encourage reforms which have been seriously undertaken for their betterment will only harm them. The truth of the Congo. 1. January 20, 1907 My own interest in the Congo free state began at the San Luis Exposition. As is well known that Exposition made a special feature of groups of representatives of tribes from various parts of the world. This natives dressed in native dress, lived in native houses and so far as possible reproduced an accurate picture of the daily life to which they were accustomed in their homes. I am on the groupster brought together was one of Congo natives. This group was commonly known as the Pigme group, the above four out of the nine members composing it made it claims to be such. The group was brought by Mr. SP burner at one time missionary to the Congo who was engaged by the Exposition to make a special journey into Central Africa to procure it. Four members of the group were Batua, the order where large blacks represent the Bakuba and Baluba. The idea of visiting Africa was one which I had never seriously entertained, but in the study of these Congolese, it seemed to me that they were interesting questions, the solution of which would well repay a visit. The consequence was that I determined to visit the Congo free state and specifically that part of the state from which these natives have been brought. About this time, I received considerable literature from the Congo Reform Association at Boston, the reader know which had his influence in deciding me to undertake the expedition. After reading this literature, I started for the Congo fully prepared to see all kinds of horrors. I suppose that mutilations, cruelties and atrocities of the most frightful kinds would everywhere present themselves. I expected to find people everywhere suffering, mourning, and in unhappiness. My errand, however, was not that of a structure after all these beautiful things, but purely that of a student of human races, with definite questions for the investigation. I may say that my opportunities for formidable opinion of conditions in the Congo have been exceptional. Mine was no hasty journey, but Atari in the country extending over more than one year. While my original plan was to spend the greater portion of my time in the district rural by the Bakuba chief, Dumbhe, with both the short period in other parts of the state, I had decided before reaching the mouth of the Congo to more evenly distribute my time and to see far more of the Congo proper than I at first intended. As a consequence, I went first into the Kasi district where I spent four months after which returning to Leppelville, I went up the main river to the head of Navigation and even Bion, the points here real, determined us of the newly built line of railroad. We also went up the Rwime to the famous Jambuja camp, with the navigation of that river is interrupted by Kuttererach. I have therefore seen not only the lower Congo, which has been so frequently visited in recent years, but traveled thousands of miles upon the Great River and two of its most important tributaries. In this extended journey, I came into constant contact with representatives of the three groups of white men who live in the Congo Free State, state officials, missionaries, and traders. I had repeated conversations with them all and have heard opinions upon the Congo state from these diverse points of view. My position with reference to Congo matters is peculiar, WSO. I might even say it is unique. My journey was made at my own expense. I was not the representative of any institution, society, or body. I was without instructions and my observations were untrampled by any demands or conditions from outside. While I am under many unweighty obligations to scores of state officials, missionaries, and traders, I am not prevented from speaking my mind, in regard to any and every matter. Both to the missionaries, state officials and traders, I paid board and lodging at every stopping point, with the single exception of one American mission station, which leaves me freedom. While this state facilitated my visit on my work in many ways, I was not at any time, in relations with it of such a kind, as to interfere with free observations or free expression. I made this entirely clear on my first visit to the state authorities at Brussels, and it was understood by them that it should speak freely in frankly of everything which I should see. Underpart, the state authorities expressed the liveliest satisfaction that an independent American traveler should visit the Congo free state and said that they did not wish anything concealed or attenuated, as they felt sure that such a visit as mine could only do them good. I have said that my position was doubly peculiar. I was not only independent and entrampled in observation and expression, but my personal attitude to the whole question of colonization and administration by a foreign power of natives is radical. Personally, I dislike the effort to elevate civilized, remake a people. I should prefer to leave the African as he was before white contact. He is my belief that there is no people so weak or so degraded as to be incapable of self-government. I believe that every people is happier and better with self-government, no matter how alike or own form that no one meant may be. I feel that no nation is good enough or wise enough or sufficiently advanced to undertake the elevation and civilization of a lower people. The still less do I approve the exploitation of a native population by outsiders for their own benefit. Nor do I feel that even the development of British trade warrants interference with native life, customs, lows and lands. I know however that these views are then popular and theoretical. In the series of articles then which I have been asked to prepare, I shall try to take the standpoint of the practical man, the businessman, the man of affairs, the philanthropist, the missionary. All these agree that civilized folk have a perfect right leader fear with any native tribe too weak to resist their encroachment. They agree that it is perfectly right to trample under food, native customs, institutions, ideas, to change and modify, to introduce innovations, either to the bellop trade, to exploit a country, to elevate the race or to save souls. I am forced then to look at congomatters from the point of view of this eminently practical man. Of course I saw much to criticize, it is true that there are flowing and chain gangs and prisons. I have seen them all repeatedly, but there are flowing chain gangs and prisons in the United States. Mutilation's are so rare that one must seek for them and I had too much else to do. There is taxation, yes, heavy taxation, a matter which I shall discuss quite fully further on. In connection with taxation, there is forced labor, a matter which of course I disapprove, but it appears as just to all the groups of eminently practical men to whom I have referred. There are no doubt hostages in numbers, but I saw less than it was in, and the whole matter of hostages is one which merits careful and can did discussion. And I know that in many a large district, the population is much smaller than in former times. The causes of these diminution in numbers are many and barriers and to them I shall return. Flogging, chain gang, prison, mutilation, heavy taxation, hostages, depobulation, all these I saw, but at no time and at no place where they so flagrant as to force themselves upon attention. And a frightful outrageous such as I had expected to meet everywhere, I may almost say there was nothing. These are the reasons, of course, but further to state that I was not in the district of the A, B, I, R. I cannot believe, however, that conditions in that district are so appalling as the newspaper reports would indicate. On the contrary, I found that many places a condition of the Negro population far happier than I had dreamed it possible. The Negro of the Congo, the band to if you please, is a born traitor. He is imitated to disagree. He is a quesative and churned with novelties. He is bright and quick, remarkably intelligent. He rarely acquires new languages and it is no good common thing to find a Congo band to who can speak six or seven languages besides his own. In this position variable and emotional, he quickly forgets his sorrow. By so hinders of natives who work in happily, living in good houses, dressing in good clothes of Europeans, stuff and pattern and saving property. At this number we are rapidly increased, I have no doubt. And now, on my return, after having many of my preconceived ideas completely shattered and feeling on the whole that things in Congo land are not so bad and that improvement is in the order of today, I am a start-up to find the greatest excitement. Pages of newspapers are filled with stories of atrocities, many of which never happened, some of which are ancient and a part of which recent in date are true. I find the first excitement about the Belgium lobby, vigorous resolutions presented in the Senate and the president of the United States, updrunning his most urgent supporters and advisors, ready to take some drastic action to ameliorate the conditions of the suffering millions in the Congo free state. This surprise is somewhat degraded as my latest information regarding the American official attitude has been gained from the letter written by Secretary of Rude some months ago. What can be the reason of such prodigies and sudden change? What has happened in the Congo since April to produce the present state of mind? What is the motive underlying the bitter attacks upon Leipold and the free state which he established? Is it truly humanitarian? Or are there a lot of old impulses and praiseworthy sympathies of two great people being used for hidden and sinister ends of politics? I do not claim in fallibility, I do claim that my having spent a year in the Congo free state independently should qualify me to express opinions on the conditions. I have heard both sides, I have troubled thousands of miles in Congo territory, I have visited natives of 28 different tribes. No interference has been placed in my way, I have gone where I placed and when and how I placed. No preparations have been made with reference to my visits, I believe no changes in practice have been produced by my presence. In the series of articles before us, it is my intention to present in detail what I have seen and much of what I have heard in the Congo independent state. I may make errors what I shall tell no intentional falsehoods. I shall criticize what the serves criticism. I shall praise what is praiseworthy, I trust that those who are interested in forming a 3D of Congo conditions may find something useful in my observations. At this point, it is necessary for us to know something of the Congo native himself. In dark Africa, for Northern Africa is and always has been a white man's country, there are three Negro or Negroy the masses. There is little doubt that the original inhabitants of the continent were dwarf people and says source of the pigments of the high E.T. forest and about 12 of the upper Kassai. End of section 1